Well, I'm going to share a little bit about baptism. But before I do, we've got people watching online, Midland and Aurelia are joining us. Can we welcome them, Barry? Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
This is an incredible morning for us, the opportunity to celebrate the baptism of people across all of our locations, people's lives who are being changed.
and transformed by Jesus. And at each of every location, you're gonna see local stories. You might see a story from another location. As we have the opportunity to celebrate,
what God has done. And if you're here this morning, and maybe you wouldn't normally find yourself with us, and you've joined us this morning, maybe somebody invited you to come and see us.
and see them baptized. And you might be walking in here with a lot of questions, and you're kind of wondering, what is this whole morning going to be like? I want to let you know that
that we created this church as a place where you can belong even if you aren't sure you believe. That we welcome questions, we welcome doubts, and you might have some questions about baptism. I hope
I'm hoping to answer a few of those this morning. And what I want to do is just talk a little bit about baptism. Why would somebody be baptized? Because I'm
On one hand, there's probably a group of you in the room who would say, well, baptism to me is more of a traditional thing, maybe a family tradition or a church tradition.
Ah, maybe you were baptized as a baby, or you know someone who was, or someone who said, hey, I did a profession of faith or a confirmation that those are more church family traditions.
traditions, and that's kind of your experience of baptism, right?
or maybe you're here this morning and you don't know anything about baptism you've never seen it and to you you're thinking
I would have to be crazy to do this.
Why would I get in front of a whole bunch of people, get dunked underwater? my hair is like all a mess when I come out, somebody takes a photo of it.
Captures it for all time.
And then, ah, and then I get out of the tank. Why? why would I want to do that in front of a whole bunch of people? And I think it's a great question.
i think the question of why we do this is a really good one.
and i want to spend a few minutes and share that with you this morning see for us when we look at our lives what's most important to us at this church is that we look at what
Look at what scripture has to say. And we look at how Jesus lived his life.
and when we look at that we see jesus pointing to baptism in fact if you look at scripture jesus is the person being baptized you think you would see
He would see all these stories of him baptizing people, but the story is actually of him being baptized. That's the account you see, right?
There's a gentleman named John. We now call him John the Baptist. When I was a kid, I thought it meant he went to a Baptist church. That's what I thought. But John the Baptist was really John the Baptist.
on the baptizer, right?
that ah john was walking around preaching, traveling and saying hey there's a savior of the world coming.
There's a new hope coming.
that the son of God is coming and he would be repent, repent, repent, and he would say, "You need to be baptized. You need to be baptized."
And then one day,
The actual person Jesus he's talking about
Shows up on the shore of the Jordan River.
and this is what happens.
it says then jesus went from galilee to the jordan river to be baptized by john.
But John tried to talk him out of it.
I'm the one who needs to be baptized by you, he said. So why are you coming to me?
So what happens is John and Jesus, maybe they're standing in the water and John's like, Jesus, I'm not baptizing you. You should baptize me. And Jesus is like, no, I want you to baptize me. And he's not like, you should be baptizing me
Eventually, Jesus says, but Jesus said it should be done eventually.
For we must carry out all that God requires.
And so John agreed to baptize him.
Jesus says, this has got to be done.
i i i've got to do this i need to be an example i i need to i need to go ahead on this and he decides to be baptized and it says after his baptism as jesus came up out of the water.
And a voice from heaven said, This is my dearly loved son who brings me to the Father, and I will give you the kingdom of heaven. And he said to them,
Who brings me great joy. Now, I want to talk to you about why this would be a huge deal for people.
you see at that time if you were to convert let's say to a particular religion you would sometimes go through a washing ceremony ceremony for example if you decide
You decided, hey, I'm going to convert to Judaism. I want to follow the whole Jewish side of spirituality. I want to convert to that. You would have
You would have a washing ceremony. That would be a part of what you would do.
you would wash yourself often in a cistern and we'd be more of a private ceremony that wasn't an abnormal thing
But what's happening here is when people choose to follow Jesus as he goes from this event and is preaching, he's telling his disciples to baptize people, and people can't believe it. I mean, this,
I mean, this isn't me in private washing myself. This is like 100 people, 1,000 people, and they're dunking me under. This is like a total act of surrender. I'm not washing myself.
I'm being dunked. I'm being plunged. I'm coming up. There's all these people here. This would be something that for them would be unbelievable. Yeah.
That you would be so public about this.
About the choice that you're making.
And Jesus lived out that example.
i mean that's where we get it from now why would you want to do it
is a different question.
Why would you ever want to do it?
And the truth is that we believe
in this church that there's no one and nothing that changes lives like jesus we've all experienced that many of us in our own lives not all of us but many of us have
and when you make a decision that's that important it's something that you want to share with people
See, our faith, our relationship with Jesus,
if you have a relationship with jesus it's meant to be personal
But it's not meant to be private.
And sometimes we get those two things mixed up.
It's personal, so it should be private.
But the truth is, our faith is personal, so it should be public.
Because it's something we're excited about.
it's something that we want to share and the people who are being baptized at all of our locations this morning are people who are saying hey Jesus has changed my life and I want to share it with people and this is how it
This is how Jesus has shared with me how I should do that. This is how he's told me how I should do it.
when i was in ah grade seven.
I had made the basketball team, the boys basketball team,
i was so excited it was the first team i ever made.
and we had to be a practice before seven a m.
And I remember our parents would drive us there, drop us off, and I remember how quiet the school was.
Because nobody was there. It was like we were practicing in private.
and we would go there, we practice every day, and we would do our place and i just i love this team.
and one day the coach came to us and said if you can get enough money out of your parents
I'll get team jackets for you guys.
Oh my gosh, we were so excited.
I was so excited I still have the jacket, if you can believe that.
this is this is my grade seven basketball jacket.
And I'll never forget the day I got, it looks white to you, but when you get close, it's a little more yellow, I promise.
And, um,
I remember getting in the car to go to practice that day thinking, man, I'm going to get my jacket today.
In getting to practice and getting that jacket and wearing that jacket in the hallway.
To show people.
Man, I'm on the basketball team.
That that it was something so personal to me that i couldn't wait to share it
it wasn't so personal that i kept it private it was personal so i made it public.
and and that's when it comes to our faith.
It's such a personal thing.
That we want to make the public, we want to let people know.
That's the example that Jesus has led us to.
That our our faith is so personal
That we want to make it public.
Because he has changed and is changing our lives.
now you might be asking the question if you've been to any kind of ceremony or you've been to a baptism you might be wondering okay i get it i get it and uh
And they go under the water, they come up. Why would they do that? Is it just like,
because that's what jesus did is there anything symbolic about it what does it actually mean and there is a lot of symbolism to it
That when you go under the water and you come up,
There's really a cleansing that happens. And that's probably the most obvious symbol.
but also it's a symbol of an old life and a new life in fact it's described in second corinthians as this this means that anyone who belongs in christ has become an
I'm a new person. The old life is gone and a new life has begun. Amen.
It's saying, hey, I want to live my life for Jesus. That's what I want to do.
that I'm going to leave a life of not leaving for Jesus behind. It doesn't mean you're perfect.
Nobody's gonna walk out of this tank and now be perfection. That is not what's gonna happen.
But it's a symbol of the fact that Jesus is changing and transforming our lives, and that we're made new in him.
and that he lived a perfect life.
See, the other symbol here is that Ah, Jesus's death and resurrection going under the water and coming out of the water.
He died on the cross and was dead for three days, and then rose again.
That's the symbol that's here.
That he lived an ideal life, a perfect life,
And then died for our sin.
I think...
No matter where you come from or what your background is,
When you look at the world around us,
We know it's not ideal.
we know that there's a gap between the ideal and the real what's actually happening and what we know should happen
We see sickness around us.
We see viruses around us.
we see people treating other people in a way that they shouldn't we see racism we see all these things and think man the world isn't supposed to be that way.
And the truth is we see it in ourselves.
I know I shouldn't have done that with my kid. I know I shouldn't have spoken to them that way. I know I shouldn't have treated my wife that way. I know I shouldn't have treated my coworker that way.
I know I shouldn't have spoken that way to my neighbor or done this or made that decision that there's a gap between the real and ideal and that gap is sin.
that's the word that scripture uses for it
And Jesus lived the ideal, perfect life and died for that sin and rose again.
so that we he could close that gap and we could find life in him he can make us new and continue to make this world new and use us to to make that world new.
And that we can live with him in eternity.
And that's really baptism is a picture of that.
And so if you're here this morning and you hear all that and you think,
Okay, I got a lot of questions about that, about Jesus and about this thing you call sin and is it like, isn't that just doing bad things and what does that all mean? If that's you,
Ask you, I would invite you to come back and join us today.
Because we love an environment where you can ask your questions and you can discover more about faith.
but if you're here this morning and you would say well i'm a follower of jesus jeff i get all that.
But you haven't chosen to be baptized?
You need to do it.
You need to follow the example of Jesus.
That, um, that you need to walk in obedience and say, hey, I'm going to not keep this personal anymore, but but I'm going. I'm going to show it. I'm going to show it in a public way.
that i want people to know that that i'm going to walk in the footsteps of jesus
And this morning, if you're here and you're saying,
Man, I didn't sign up to be baptized today. I'd like to be baptized. We were sharing with you earlier. We have everything you need. They've got shirts and they've got shorts and they've got
And they've got, uh,
I don't know what else they have. They have towels and hair dryers and look at this. Sandals, they got sandals.
well that's so much like jesus the fact they have sandals
Um,
So, you know, they've got everything you need. They've got, you know, towels and all kinds of different things. And so if you want to be baptized, there's some people at the back who will meet you on the way out.
Way out. We'd love to baptize you this morning because we want to celebrate it.
Man, the last thing I want to do
It's to have my life changed by Jesus and keep it a secret.
And um and he challenges us to that
And if you're here this morning and you're going to hear some stories of what Jesus has done, and you may leave here with more questions than you do answers.
And I think that's good. I think questions are good.
and i would love for you to come back and discover more about what faith is and who jesus is.
So I'm excited for us to celebrate at all locations today. As people are being baptized, I want to hear you nice and loud.
as they, as we celebrate with them and as they step out in this way. And I would love for you to join me as I pray.
God, we come to you this morning and...
We thank you so much.
for what you've done in the lives of those who are being baptized today.
and god as we celebrate with them we pray that they would be encouraged
And I pray for those who are saying, man, I know I need to do this this morning.
And I'm just looking for the courage to do that. I pray that your spirit will walk alongside them.
We thank you for your example. We thank you for the gift of salvation. We thank you that you died and rose again. We thank you that you are for us and not alone.
and not against us.
And we pray this in your name.
Amen.